Hello, dear listener, and welcome to Startling Barbara Bain, the only Space 1999 commentary podcast that's starting to suspect that those clean cut young men who rang our doorbell the other day might have a point after all.
I'm Nathan.
I'm Brendan.
And I'm this year's Panto, Miss Havisham, as Dinosaurs, standing in a black tablecloth.
And I'm James but probably not the one you're expecting.
Oh, probably not the one we're expecting.
All right, so we are here to watch what is sometimes known as series one, episode three, but also quite properly known as series one, episode 13?
And this is collision course.
How well regarded is this episode, Richard?
Surprisingly well.
It's Anthony Turpolov, the writer, who has a very good rep.
He also wrote Deaths of the Dominion with Brian Blessed in this season and he wrote 3 others.
Sorry, 2 others for season one and one for season two.
He is a good writer.
He was recommended...
Well, you know how it went with ITCA Mandel in the US saying we must, you must make this an American show.
You must only use American writers, but he also wrote my favourite of the season.
I don't know if it's yours, earthbound.
Oh, okay.
And have we seen this before?
I have to say, although I've watched series one before, I didn't remember this one?
I didn't have any memories.
James, do you remember?
I remember this one very fondly from my childhood.
Okay.
All the cobwebs.
Yes.
In my head, I have seen it about 3 or 4 years ago, we did a full rewatch, and in my head, I kind of merged it with the Peter Cushing one.
Oh, okay.
Because there are some similarities to what Conic goes through in both episodes.
Right, right.
Well, and she's really doing the same thing, isn't she?
As Peter Cushing, yes.
Margaret Lay and Dinah Dools.
Peter Cushing.
So I think we'll go straight into it.
What do you think?
So in that case, I have a key word?
I am going to say the word ovum.
And the next time I say that word.
I want you, listener at home, and Richard just sitting over there to press the play button.
So here we go.
Ovum.
Like a rat out of drain.
We're off.
Oh, and it's St.
Patrick's Day.
How was the Guinness?
So this is just a fabulous kind of Thunderbirds episode.
Oh, hello. got a bit raunchier.
In Pornmo time.
See, this is fabulous, isn't it?
There's nothing better than them just doing their jobs.
The moustaches modelled on the floor.
Yes, they are very similar in the 70s. every mistake.
We've got Victor's cutouts. cut out there.
And his whiteboard as well. lightly, delightfully.
Kino's on the swivel this week.
Yeah, yeah.
Doesn't he later just take up a position next to the computer next to his beloved computer.
But he has a desk.
How are they trapped in space with no resources, but their whiteboard markers haven't dried out?
Well, there's such a thing as priorities.
I would be prioritising stationary if I was going to be trapped on a moon base for a long period of time.
Yeah, so I really, really like this scene, I have to say.
And I actually really like this episode.
I think it's doing something really properly interesting because it's an episode about faith. and it gives John 2 opportunities to rely on faith rather than facts and logic in order to solve a problem.
And I think in this one we're on board with this generally.
And he has the support of a lot of people, except for horrible Prentice Hancock, who is an absolute bastard this episode.
And I think he's doing a great job here.
I really like how affected he is by what he thinks is Alan's death.
He tears up, doesn't he?
I'm really bothered that they're using a passenger module on the Eagles instead of a freighter module.
Yes.
Deliver the big orange Teletubby thing.
I'm hoping someone got sacked for that.
I would.
Well, the thing is.
Oh, I need to get another pumice for the show.
The thing is, though, that's why the release mechanism jammed because they're not using the proper eagle.
I mean, this is the thing.
Couldn't they just jettison the whole fucking box, like, and then just land the thing on the thing?
It just, anyway, whatever bothers me.
No one's even taught him how to sit nicely in a chair.
You can tell he's Australian.
That's right.
He's never seen a chair before. emergency sitting.
Riker.
Oh, there's nothing.
Look, those props don't break off when you pull on Matt Smith, do they?
It is pretty great that it's just stuck.
Like it's a stuck lever.
Yeah.
Oh, this is looking a bit stupid.
Obviously, he was a flyby wire as well.
Yeah, that's right.
It does look a little bit shitty there doesn't it?
There we go.
Now he's going to pick it up again and win a fuzzy bunny or something.
The writer of this one is the lovely Anthony Turpolov, who was a UK resident.
They ended up using American writers, but only those resident in the UK because they had to exchange everything by telegram to brief the writers with all the changes.
It didn't really work out.
And there wasn't email yet.
That's how long ago.
Here he is overcome.
Look, he's crying. crying.
Oh, that's why you pay Martin Landau, isn't it?
You know his method.
Martin Landau studied Stanislot, understand his lawsky, not understands lawsky himself, not under school, just next to him.
Oh okay.
No, but the Krasma school.
Okay.
Well, yeah, but Barbara's method as well, because she tells a story about the one where she has to be a cavewoman.
And so she was around her garden in the UK in skins and making a house out of twigs and forgot that...
No, their daughter was bringing the boyfriend home for the last time.
Louise Jamison over.
The tips.
I just love that lead into the opening credits too, where the sky goes wine.
Without the drum roll, apparently.
Yeah, okay.
Yeah.
It's so good.
I just can't get over.
This is the most important thing that ever happened, I think, these open credits. most expensive thing ever made for TV at the time.
It was made right under the duress of the huge financial crisis.
So, 72, the US, the Ore crisis, 73. you remember the 3 day week?
Yeah, yeah.
That's when this was being made.
Martin Bauer, friend of the other people's podcast, Martin Bauer, made the shuttle and designed it himself.
It's all balls of wooden bits of plastic in his dad's shed.
It is beautiful.
That's how it turns up.
Do you remember the last episode of The Tomorrow People?
The War of the Empires.
It's that.
They bought that. yeah it's that.
It's the same space shuttle freedom.
How's that for memory?
I actually thought that it was slightly disappointing that it was so much like the hardware on the space station that it looked like something humans had made and it could have looked...
The Rottenberry universe.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, maybe that's it.
So Margaret Layton.
Joyous CBE.
She'd just been given a CBE a few months before this.
I don't know why they didn't put it on the titles.
I think she's one of the best things that's been in this show as a guest artist.
So I think she has a best supporting actress, Oscar nomination at some point.
She has 2 damn tonys.
Right, okay. to damn Tony's.
She was perfect in the 50s.
She just lots of just everything.
She was a great beauty in her day.
She was suffering MS.
I don't want to go there and cancer.
And this is, as James said earlier.
Um, not to speak for James, but he, um, since I think we've put him on ice.
He, um, she was, um, She was the most awarded guest artist of this 1st season at the time.
But she is very, very ill.
And so they shoot her pages in like two days.
I'm sorry to interrupt.
Yeah, no, no.
I think she's extraordinary.
It's an incredible performance.
She doesn't understand what she's saying most of the time.
She's the Beryl Reed.
1999.
Apparently she did.
Apparently she really got it.
She was very interested.
She liked the leanness of the script.
She comes from, you know, the great IRC tradition of less is more.
Um, she honestly holds this together.
And I remember this at 10 years of age, just finding her extraordinary.
Yeah.
Yes.
Why are you staring at me?
No, I was being thralled by Martin's acting.
I thought, I know.
So they're looking for an Allen in a haystack.
Anthony Turpolov, if you're interested, was brought to Jerry's attention, actually brought to Johnny Burns' attention.
No, they had an American script yet.
They really went through background stuff very quickly on this show in the 1st 3 months.
We'll find out why later, but yeah, the original...
I will butt in here because this is like nice to see that UX design hasn't improved.
Yes, that's a row of unlabelled red button that carefully presses in a certain order.
That's in case the Russians come and take that.
There's a woman here, and it might be Tanya, who I've noticed properly for the 1st time.
Tanya is she's right there.
She's awesome.
There she is in the foreground there with a big head.
Backhead actor.
That's right.
But someone is just sitting there with a pen and paper, like writing on her desk.
And like, I do love the fact we've mentioned it before, that Martin Lander has an office, not a ready room.
That's his office and everyone here is sitting at desks with their pens and paper and writing things and pressing the occasional button.
It's an open plan, mate.
It is an open plan moon base.
No one can have any privacy when they're calling home.
And his floor plan of his office is exactly the same size as Main Mission.
Is it?
How ponce ingredient.
He's got a door that closes as well, like everyone else.
Yeah, so this is, I hadn't really noticed, you know, Prentice Hancock has made a career of being massively unlikeable in baseball.
He was the Sean Bean of his generation.
There is.
Another thing here.
It's like, four morning lights say we're going to die, but let's disregard them.
Are there any protocols they actually do follow?
But I mean, that's the point, isn't it?
That's precisely the point here.
We're getting to see him in action because he believes that Alan's okay.
And they break a lot of rules on the way.
They break the rule coming back.
They don't decontaminate.
All of that sort of thing.
They just don't...
Oh, there's Sandra blesser.
She was meant to be Italian.
You picking up that vibe?
No, she's looking very much like a northerner who's off Burmese. who will eat the entire BBC canteen, given half the time.
Well, they're flying through the plotium cloud.
But yeah, so all of that, you know, like we're disobeying the rules and it's and it's rewarded by the episode because Alan's okay.
It's kind of like when you watch Star Trek Voyager, Janeway has big Kernig energy.
It's like everyone's like, well, here's the regulations.
She's like, well, fuck you.
And fuck you specifically Harry Kim.
We're gonna do this thing.
Yeah, no.
I mean I like that.
They use soft Audi like plastics in the eagles.
Nasty PVC edges.
Look what happens. can ruin an Australian.
See, look, he's broken his thing.
He's drooling, drooling blood.
He hasn't had fosters in 12 hours and he's drooling blood.
Oh my god.
How did that ever become a thing?
You know English people think we drink fosters.
It's like Marmite.
I don't know any British people who actually eat mala.
No, no, it does.
Being ended soon.
It's like birds.
No, really?
Marmite is being ended.
Oh, we won. you go.
But how will you be able to say things are marmite?
I know.
That would just mean they don't exist anymore?
So, um...
So, I remember blunt?
I loved when there was blood on TV more.
We need more of that.
The thing is, and I guess all TV of the 70s was kind of like this if I think back to the big action shows, and there was a lot of actors doing emotional face stuff, but not much really going on.
I mean, this has always been very slow and it, obviously, has, you know, 2001, has it sort of antecedent to kind of blame for that.
I think cuts were actually slower though.
Yeah, yeah.
Oh, yeah.
I've been watching a lot of Lee Majors because why wouldn't you?
I'm just finishing that one.
And yeah, they're quite long takes on which one, you know, on a show, which was the biggest action show at the time from the US.
So we just had Margaret give her 1st line.
I'm sorry.
Yeah, aggregation by strange English women.
Yes.
Yeah, she was talking to Alan 1st saying, talk to them. like, you know, he needs to be told, yeah, talk to a certain path.
It does make more sense when she talks to Cody and says, he's over here. over there.
Yeah, it's the big white spaceship.
Sorry.
And so he's got good reason to believe her, doesn't he?
Because then we've got the big problem.
Then there's the problematic faith thing.
I mean, this is a faith thing.
The stakes are a little bit low, aren't they?
Although we are endangering the station.
Wait till we find out.
Paul is there and he sees Kernan get the...
Yeah, yeah, yeah. true.
Now, forgive me, as I wasn't here.
What was last month's episode?
It was Force of...
Last Air Force of Life.
Yeah, and it was in McShane freezing people to death, including a very, very hot young John Hamill.
Yep, the entire ABBA.
Several abattribute bands were killed during the course of that episode.
So yes, up until this point in the series, we've encountered one alien intelligence and it has been hostile.
Well, it wasn't alien intelligence so much as a green, no, a blue light.
Right.
Proto star.
A proto-star, it actually was a star.
A star was born.
Oh, that reminds me, dear listeners.
Star Trek prodigy is now available on Netflix.
And if you watch all of season one in January 2024.
It is, it gives a better chance of series season 3 being commissioned.
Oh, I do that.
The producers have said that outright.
It's very good.
It is very good.
And the ship is called the proto star.
It is, which is why you thought of it. explaining there is an actual link and it's not just my ADH.
Yes, it is a tablecloth.
No expense has been spared on this costume.
Well, they do, they give us some ageing makeup, which is delightful because she's already aged.
Great testament to the truth.
You cannot get the staff.
Not even for a feather duster.
She's sitting there.
No one.
Not even bothering.
She's covered in webs.
You can't get the wood, you know.
You can't get the, would you?
Oh dear, the effort of docking was too much for him.
Oh, God.
A minute ago, they were saying he docked so well.
He's all tired from a good hard dock.
So Christy docking.
It'll nuttle no. don't wish to know that.
Oh, look at that.
Do you think that looks like that's one of the best planets.
It's a real pustule, isn't it?
Like it's kind of gross.
It's as big as a door, that thing.
It's actually a curved cylinder.
Okay, and they just sort of, you know, spin around, but this is the point that, oh, it was Nick Elder, who was the director of the special effects.
So they had their own proper Kubrick level.
By the way, everything you're looking at here is plywood, perspex, or plaster.
And that's just Paul Morrow's... that include Paul?
Yes, Prentice.
Yes, yes.
Prentice and plywood plaster.
Plywood plaster, right?
And reflective bits of plaquie.
There's no internal lighting in the models.
Oh, really?
Boys at home.
It's the same stuff.
They covered the nemesis bow in.
Oh, for Fiona.
Oh.
Okay.
Yeah, the front axial thing.
I don't know who referenced the children would get it, yeah.
Oh, we've suddenly gone all.
Oh, finally, Babs.
Yeah, a radiation check. in charge.
She is particularly startled.
And as James said before, is anybody obeying, Oh, hi.
Hi anybody.
Is anybody obeying protocol?
Yes.
Barbara is.
Oh, call me one.
I'm startled.
That's what that's what James said. still February 14th. podcast is pour me drinks.
Yeah, he does.
Please take note.
Oh, and the whiteboard of choice.
Yes.
So the planet is 35 times the size of the moon.
You'd be feeling a gravitational thingy, wouldn't you?
Yes.
I expected a much greater radius of curvature in that case.
Well, that also did a much greater perspective.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
I mean, when we do see the 2 of them in shot, the moon is much, much smaller, hence our key word for today's episode, yes, it is sort of bilious and kind of horribly organic.
Corpus lutium.
Yes.
So we've got Alan Carter doing what he does in every episode, which is, look, Peter Davidson-y, before Peter Davidson.
Do people, is that what you do?
Is that how you get someone onto a bed?
No, that doesn't seem like the right to have a spine that's useable.
And she's still got a standard old stethoscope.
Oh, she's rocking that step.
Spaith stessoscope.
Space stethoscope.
Where's bomb putting his hands?
Well, he's a professional.
Well, just he can keep doing.
Well, I will say on the topic of the stethoscope.
We are only meant to be 25 years in the future.
So it's, you know, statoscopes had been used for what, a century before then.
It is 2023 and we're still using censoscopes, to be fair.
Yeah, yeah.
And we don't have a moon base.
And so long as Elon Musk doesn't get to run it.
Fuck that, what happened?
Yeah.
Capitalism.
No definite article again.
Yeah, computer.
Computer.
I'm learning Spanish through Duolingo at the moment, and not only is the computer feminine, but it is La Computer Dora.
Oh really?
The computer Dora.
The adorable computer?
Yeah.
It's ordinateur in French.
They're already onto you, better be nice to AI.
I love the victor does this and writes things in tiny squiggly script that no one will understand.
Yeah, this is an even dumber plan than like recreating the original explosion.
Well, because it won't work.
Because there's nothing for there to be a wave.
It won't work and there's nothing to actually push against.
See, the thing is, this was criticised at the time.
So when the novelisation came out, the writer of the novelisation decided, I'm going to correct this and made it clear that it would make supp atomic shock waves through summer topic radiation.
Right, which is basically just them going, it's in subspace.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
So wait, that's Tanya.
That's Tanya.
She'll be so great.
She's the best.
Does she ever say anything?
We, sometimes.
Yeah.
We, um, Rod and I always quite like silver guy.
Yeah, silver guy.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And he does actually have a nice bum.
I'm sorry to lower the tone, but no, no, that's raising the tone.
Oh, wait, isn't that, Tanya?
No, no, they're all...
It's like the Rachel, except it's the Tanya.
Yeah they all have that hair.
There must be just one hairdresser on Moonbase Alpha, right?
Fanboys in the rooms, if we're a bit excited about set design.
Did you notice that there are no steps up to the viewing windows in main mission in this episode?
Oh, what happened?
Well, last week they had steps.
They rebuilt the set halfway through to make it a bit grander.
Oh, wow. the whole of the study area is sit dying.
But that probably after all the shenanigans of St.
Patrick's Day when they...
They still haven't changed the line.
No, well they're still drunk.
So pardon me, Richard.
Are the sets up the up to the viewing window part of the initial build or part of the new?
No, later on they add them. yep.
Because I remember in that episode where it rains on the moon.
There are steps there.
Look at this.
Look at this thing in the background, Richard, with the Helvetica bowl.
I like the numbers.
Smiley on it.
Did you see that?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Oh, wow. actually quite good.
No, it's Babs without makeup.
Just with a sheet.
Yeah, there is a smiley, isn't there?
That's adorable.
What is that supposed be?
Just someone had some leftover lettra set, I think, probably.
Yeah, the reason this isn't Dame Layton, although she wasn't Dame Margaret.
She was just commander of the British Empire, is because Margaret Layton could not stand at this point.
She could only act sitting dying.
I thought you were going to say couldn't stand Australians at this point.
Anyway, I can't really hear you over the sound of Nick Tate's chest.
Yeah, yeah.
Whoa.
Mike's debation.
I will say, they're using the same lighting technique that good directors use for Daleks in that there's a certain way you can shine light on gauze that lets you see beyond it and ways you can shine light away from gauze, so you don't see.
So they are very deliberately highlighting her face in that way.
It's highly effective because you...
I would have thought her hair would break under that treatment.
She didn't even look startled.
Nick is actually doing really well.
I can see why they all call you can actually act.
So she doesn't go, Bob, Bob.
Nick is only 31.
Yeah, but there you go.
She did.
Stab him in the neck.
There's the lovely Anton Phillips.
On the 1st day of shooting when Anton turned up.
Of course, Martin Landau raced out to have to argue at Jerry and in front of everyone actually into the producer.
You cannot have a Bob Matthias.
Bob Matthias is a famous American athlete.
An Olympian athlete.
Was it with British family?
We don't give a ship.
Okay, but they kept it in.
I thought you were going to say they've cast another person who's prettier than me.
That was his thing though, wasn't it?
You had to be the same height and colour.
Right, okay. ostensible friend.
Martin.
It was the 70s.
But you can see his method and that this is the problem.
He really took it all to hard.
And that is the problem with method training.
It's so damn Freudian.
They don't remove themselves from it.
So they are a-holes on the set.
And as you say, they both they met while they were studying.
They both learnt the same method.
I think they're actually what do you think, James?
As far as the performance coons?
of Marty and Babs.
Oh, I get lost in it all the time. immersive, isn't it?
I mean, that's the thing.
Sort of to a modern eye, it's highly mannered, I suppose.
But I never feel like I'm looking at Martin Landau Barbara Bain, I feel like I'm looking at characters.
You know, I believe that they are other people, which is the fundamental function of the actor.
Yes, Prentice Hancock.
Yeah.
And we get that with Sandra as well, don't we?
Yes, yes.
So Xenia definitely gives us that saying.
I mean it's much more subtle, but it is the same pitch.
If Victor's finished his plan, does that mean we've worked out how long a piece of string is?
Yes, we do now.
ATY as the scientist, he asks the deep question.
You know, he is, he was my favourite character when I was a kid.
And so when it was a series 2 episode, I was always heartbroken and here he displays the things that I like, which are the way that he sympathises with John early on and the way that, you know, Carno says, oh, it's not logical.
And he says, no, it's faith, you know, he's so humane.
I can't hear anyone but Graham Garden though.
I was drunk.
Do you know Victor was written and, oh, look, here we go.
I feel like they passed the narrative horizon here and fell into Moonraker.
Five years early.
So gorgeous.
So I interrupted you.
No, it doesn't matter.
I did notice that when...
Oh, that's evasive.
That's drunk.
When Clifton Jones was turning the desk.
He had his arms out in front of him on the desk and then as soon as he finished out, you folded them.
I'm like, he's having to... and sort of hold on to death for DLI.
Oh, it's gorgeous.
It is beautiful, but it does look a little bit too much like a space shuttle.
Oh, wow.
It's very humane.
I think we're getting...
Welcome to Japan, Mr. Bond.
It's great.
And we know that's where Martin was coming from.
Oh, I think it's slightly wrong and rude.
We...
It is, nom, nom, nom, nom.
So gorgeous.
Yeah, it just looks stunning.
The 4 Star Wars kids.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Way before.
It's funny.
I did that Titan Titan 4,999 video, which is the Space 1999 titles, but for the Invisible Enemy for Doctor Who.
Okay, yes.
Four years ago and someone commented on it this week.
Do you know, I think the same costume and set designer might have worked on Blake 7 a few years later.
And I haven't had the heart to reply and say, no.
Yeah.
Yeah, because it's a bad easy.
Because it was just such an earnest comment.
Just like...
I think you're right.
Do you know Victor was cast as the Spock character to please ITC New York and his artificial heart was supposed to mean that he does show emotions.
And Barry Moore said, guck on.
Screw that.
Yeah, yeah.
I think he's the best thing about this cast in the first year.
Let me do my job, he said.
And even Jerry said, yeah, you're right.
No, it's just how humane he is. and his relationship with John.
It's just that lovely low pitch because those 2 are just squealing like emergency ward tens.
Sandra trying to hit the middle level between the 2 and Victor pretty much just...
Still a little bit tired from last.
Swingers party.
There is still that element of John being the uncontrolled emotional response.
Yeah, the victim bringing him back down to that.
Yeah, we talk about Star Trek, the original series as being a bit like that.
You've got, you know, McCoy's emotion.
Spocker's rationality, and then, you know, Kirk is the ego, you know, trying to sort of choose between.
It's just like Sex and the City.
Super ego.
Yeah, yeah, exactly.
He's got his stapler out.
Oh, I can't not see that.
You've ruined that gun.
We've got 45 more episodes of this to go change.
I loved those guns when I was a kid, though.
Did you draw the...
Yeah, the slow laser.
I made a communicator out of Fisher Technic.
Oh, wow.
The Comlock. name in a long time.
Comlock.
Oh.
On that point about Victor sort of having an artificial heart, there is a there is a sort of tradition that someone has a prosthesis or a replacement organ in science fiction.
It means they lose some of their humanity.
So to go against that this early.
It's actually really, really good.
You know, when we get to Star Trek Next Generation, of course, Geordie has his visor.
And a big point about his character in the early seasons is how emotionally reserved he is and he wishes he was better with showing emotion, but it never says he doesn't have it.
Yeah.
You know?
Um, so yeah, that good on um, good on Barry Morse for fighting against that.
Yeah, I think it would make for really dull television.
And he's right.
Yeah, yeah.
Like, yeah, we can't have any interpersonal conflict between the characters.
Can we, Mr. Roddenbrick?
So here are the cobwebs at the cobwebs.
We're just heading into this...
Miss Havisham's boudoir at this point.
Boudoir.
I actually did have a little jump scare at that door, which probably tells you more about me. you thinking it should be red and white?
I didn't quite know what was going on and have an episode.
Helena, stop. don't move I quite like how slow this is, I have to say.
It's gorgeous, is it?
And just how minimal it is, you know, that it's all sort of negative space plus, yeah.
So this is an image that you remember.
Yes.
Yeah, yeah.
You know, it's funny.
Like when a lot of series moved to HD, set designers were like, oh, we have to put in so much more detail and you can't have SD sets and it's like, well, we are now watching this in HD and it still looks good.
It looks great. shot on 35.
This is shot on stage M at Pinewood, which you'll remember from Bond films of our previous fingerings.
Pretty much most of them were shot on partly on stage M. It's a really big the whole sound stage too.
I love this going closer.
And then going closer.
He's just worried.
And they're going in closer.
Are they going to get closer again?
It's a Eurovision act.
So her throne will turn up a bunch of times again.
It does.
They spread orange and Liam McCern gets to sit in.
Oh, wonderful.
That is not Leonardo, and no, it is not Diana Dors.
That knowing that she actually played Ms. Havisham.
Julia said, oh, it's Miss Havish?
Yeah, dude.
And then Space, Miss Havisham.
Look what she's doing.
Even before there's any lines.
She's looking at him saying, I've been sitting here for a 1000000 bloody years.
I like this too.
And I think probably the episode doesn't quite...
So the 1st time he has faith, he has faith because he doesn't want to believe that his friend is dead and he does all of these things because he's convinced that he's still alive and partly because his decision was involved.
Here now, it's much more explicitly religious, and it reinterprets the accident that we had 2 episodes ago as something that's been destined to happen 1000000s of years, that it was always going to happen, that it wasn't just an accident, that it was fated to occur.
And so it undermines no fricking feather dusters. 1000000s of years to develop a technology of a freaking shit.
Or a room bike.
Yeah.
She could have had a room bar if no one was about to wield the weather, the feather dumpster.
It was it was funny.
Watching this again, I sort of thought of 2 descendants of this rather than antecedents.
One is a very early Star Trek Next Generation episode called Lonely Among Us. where there's an entity that joins with the captain.
Yeah, the captain fucks a nebula.
Yeah, pretty much.
And also, and Nathan, I'm not sure if you've seen this, but the Babylon 5 telemovie River of Souls.
Yeah, I've never even heard of it.
Which concerns an alien race who were harvested by the Soul Hunters, because they're like, oh, this alien race is about to die out, and their souls then reach out to the captain of Babylon 5 and say, no, we were fucking evolving to metaphysical beings, and these bastards came along and did this to us.
Yeah, like that time that Boimler ruined that thing for the guy who was ascending to become a koala or whatever he lowered down.
Yeah, like putting too much air in its sentence.
Yeah.
Is this a good point to mention that Margaret Layton?
C.
Hang on.
B, B, E, B, E, is 5 years younger than you and I in this episode.
She does have a fair amount of latex on her face.
That's your opinion.
Well, chaps, all I can say is this is the power of Yakult.
That's it.
And smoking not being particular.
I think she just...
I think she got really bored and went through a lot of Marlborough 100.
She looks like Lizzie Birdsworth.
Sylvester McCoy tells that story about one of his grandmothers who turned 90 or something and all of her friends were dead and she'd never drunk and she never smoked and then she took up both of them and died 3 years later.
What's she's saying here though?
with, you know, your voyage will go on.
We'll go into the deeps of chase.
It makes much more sense having this early on. as, you know, one of the 1st episodes rather than way at the end of, except the show never really kind of goes anywhere in a sands, and the premise sort of changes in all sorts of ways.
And I don't mind that.
I don't care.
Like, you know, yes, this is so interesting, isn't it?
doing face like, 0 my goodness.
Give her another Tony.
Yeah, unrecognisable.
How many syllables in that children?
if you're like, I mean, at 10 years of age, I was completely won over.
Yes.
But I mean, that's the point, isn't it?
So she has this religious thing about what's going to happen.
And so portentous, if you're Lala would.
Yeah.
Sorry, James, what you got to say?
There's a lot of deep breathing there.
She's very excited.
Well, she's got a lot of freaking cobwebs to deal with.
He's dusty.
Space asthma.
Oh, she's a poppyosa sizer.
She is really good.
And I love her compelling notion of I'm powerless.
I'm sitting here on this bloody thing.
You better get it right, mate.
There's a wonderful story about Margaret, as Richard said earlier.
She wasn't able to stand anymore.
So she came to sit on a wheelchair and the crew helped her get in position and she basically said to the rector, I don't know how long you've got me if also let's get going.
It was just a day, wasn't it?
Two days.
But 15 pages.
I think it was cut.
I think a lot of it was cut out, but I would have been happy.
Look, it's just enough, but I'd honestly be happy with 45 minutes of Margaret Layton just reading.
Yeah, yeah.
We could have cut some apprentices stuff.
The lovely Julia said when they 1st met, she said, we have met with purpose.
She says these Tinder dates are getting weird.
Why isn't she?
You could save 2 pages by cutting one of Victor's jaws.
John.
Oh, look.
Helena's really, oh, eyebrows.
Yeah, wonderful stuff.
Yeah, I'm not him too.
Ash blonde.
There really is no other colour, is there, in space?
No, no.
Barbara Beige, as I told you.
Mother Cumberbatch.
I'm worried about the front end of that spaceship.
I have to say now that I see it in close-up.
Yeah.
Is it just?
Just gray eyes.
So beautiful.
Margaret takes a great beauty in her day.
I do lots of fun things.
Go on.
Sorry, I love the combination of the words. dangerously conserved.
Yeah, yeah.
Your friends are dangerously concerned.
I like the unthinking...
Yes, me too. beautiful, isn't it?
Yeah.
Oh, I think she's so compelling.
I don't think it works this episode unless she's compelling because he has to undergo this sort of weird religious kind of, uh, you know, awakening and then start acting in this sort of way that everyone else conceives is irrational.
And she's right.
It's true.
Like what she says is true.
And so John is right to have the faith in her that he has.
He does have that crisis at the end, though.
Yeah, yeah.
But even at the very, very end too.
Oh yeah, yeah, she's stunning, isn't she?
She is younger, she was good.
But she, he has that thing at the end where he says you did the right thing because I was a nutcase and you were right to react the way that you did.
And I just, I don't know, I don't know.
But she makes it believable.
Yeah, 0 yeah, I think she's she's really terrific.
She sells it.
And the dialogue is beautiful. you know, like it's a it's a well-written part.
Like that, the cold light of moon based.
That struck me as well when I was watching it today.
Because that's exactly what it looks like.
I didn't realise she was in Knight of the Iguana 10 years earlier, which is...
Did she play the iguana?
No, stop it.
In the film version, it's Avogardner.
It's a great play.
She also got attorney for separate tables, if you remember that one.
That's really funny little piece.
Terrence Radigan, of course. faith aspect again.
Yeah, yeah.
No, they used the word several time in dialogue, and I just think it's really interesting.
Yes, she did have a repetitive strain injury from marrying homosexuals.
Oh, yes.
She married Lawrence Harvey.
Who, of course, is in Manchurian candidate whom we've named before and Notre Dame sexual. and then Michael Wilding.
She had no children by any of their marriages.
You astounded me, yeah.
Yeah, but she was rarely troubled.
It's a difficult life.
I interested in seeing Spanish.
She's fading out.
She going.
Yeah, well, roll back and mix, just so quick.
Well, back and mix.
They stop paying her right there.
Do we see her again?
Oh, no.
Oh, we do.
Briefly.
Just calls it in from now.
But trial by combat is her last film in 76 as Ma Gore.
Margor and that's in 1974.
The air seems full of dust as well or cloudy, doesn't it?
Or is it the picture quality?
pretty gorgeous sick.
It is beautiful.
There's not actually a lot in the set.
It's just the size of the thing.
It's the size of just the, you know, the geometric shapes and the.
Yeah.
It was meant to be a series of your help, your help, your help.
It was meant to be off camera, they're just repeating it.
Where'd he put his helmet?
Because...
Yes.
They're reversing out of the thing too.
Oh, I love it when Xenia does her sort of surprised acting.
See, she does startle.
She does startled.
Yeah.
Startling Ping Cho, wouldn't it?
Helen looking optimistic.
Yeah, Helena's doing some face acting there too, I think.
Peter's looking positively excited.
Yeah, Paul is doing Paul.
Paul is doing Paul.
He's Paul already.
Calling the capital?
I've got my bombs out already.
You're asking me to take them back again?
Yeah, that's right.
What am I gonna do with them?
Do you want to explain to the union?
Maybe they all knew that it wouldn't work.
No one was telling Victor and Paul that it's called space because there's nothing in it.
So this scene I think this scene is really remarkable.
I was actually surprised.
Like it worked on me.
So I want to see if they exchange looks or anything.
No, yeah, actually, now that I know what happens, maybe I should see if it's visible.
By computer.
The computer's actually called Beryl.
Okay.
Not many people know that.
They roller out occasionally.
Yeah, so...
Yes, yes.
So they're looking to see they look across at one another?
So Victor and Helena, but it's subtle enough that I just assumed because this is an episode about faith and because he was successful.
Swing it there at the end.
Yes.
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
They're all against it.
Victor comes out for it and they all go, oh, okay, then. right.
And then John walks off and they all go, he's fucking crazy.
What's going on?
Good luck working in the command structure after this.
Yeah, yeah.
But in that Star Trek episode, Lonely Among Us, there's a meeting among the senior staff. of what do we do about the captain after they've all kind of gone to his face.
Oh no, everything's fine.
Yeah, it's all okay.
And in the Babylon 5 film, I was talking about the alien consciousness takes the form of Babylon 5's previous medical officer as someone, the Captain Trust.
Right.
Yeah.
So, you know, I'm not, I'm not saying either writer directly copied this, but certainly JMS talks about how he was a big fan of 80s, 70s and 80s British SF.
Yeah, you would hope Doctor Who.
He cites space 1999 as influencers.
Oh, Paul.
I'm not happy.
But like how, how, how does he operate like that?
That just seems like, here they go.
Yeah, and now...
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
And she's looking shifty.
Paul, you're in charge.
Yeah, look, and they're kind of looking evil there.
Are they evil?
Do you think they're evil?
They being shot from below?
Yeah, I think it's possibly deceitful, but not evil.
Yeah, but it does, it shocked me.
I was actually shocked and a little bit disappointed because it's Barbara and Victor, you know, they're the 2 people, the kind of moral centres of the show, and here they are betraying...
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah.
And you'll look after Johnny.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
You'll give him lots of oxycontin, then lock him in his room.
Spiky drink.
Oh, meanwhile, the pus planet.
What's that new thing everyone wants?
A Zempic?
Yeah, it's not as good as Oxy-Oxycontin, I can tell you that.
Is he drooling?
That's method drool.
I remember this shot of all the things in the, in this, it's Margaret Layton and the shot of the orange minty.
Sorry, the orange lifesavers, just sort of floating...
Orange, you know, pastilles. in space.
Really nice to just put out.
There we go.
Explosive space past.
No, they look like Simon.
Do you remember Simon?
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, they look Simon says blow up.
Yeah.
That was the toy everyone wanted in 1977 or something.
I found one when we were clearing out my dad's garage.
Okay, yep.
Along with the vectrics.
Wow, thank you for saying your dad's garage.
That's great.
And a commodore...
I might like the multi-layout, the hatch with buttons here.
I wanted those buttons.
I open the hatch.
More buttons.
More buttons safe.
Who can say what they even do?
Press more buttons and then they're safe, the safe winds opens and this is armed.
How do they all work on those desks with no monitor?
No one has their own...
Yeah, yeah.
No labels on the buttons.
Nothing.
Well, some of them have keyboards.
Like I've got keyboards, but there's no...
No.
Isn't that funny?
There were computers in 1970 thing.
I mean, they knew...
And they were more and they had screens.
They all just look at the main mission screen.
Yeah.
Well, everyone's patching into that.
Is that what those little intaglios at the bottom?
Here we have Keith Wilson's kimono design.
So you'll notice that the UFC thing on there, because they've all got their own little designations.
So I think it's kind of telling that, you know, the 2 of them turn up in their pyjamas.
It's a main mission because they're crazy religious nutcases, you know.
Like it is, it's a thing.
I also wonder too.
But it was clearly haptic.
I didn't move.
Do you think that he bought them a Christmas present the next year?
Especially after elbowing this guy in the stomach. right.
Can you imagine?
Oh, wow. really hurt.
I rubted your spleen.
So he's a fruit bust.
That's right.
I think we've smoothed it all over.
Here's a mango, which is what your gallbladder is the size of at the moment.
Oh goodness.
Great week for Nick, because, you know, yeah, he's just been in bed for most of the episode.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
But he gets lots of chest hair, sort of action.
Wow.
And there was a shotgun mic just above him.
Was there?
Yeah.
Well, just the shadow.
Just the shadow of the shotgun, Mike.
Oh, look.
Look at that.
He's got a treasure trail like James. other James.
Other James.
Awesome.
Hair in the gate.
Probably from Alan.
Yeah, probably rubbing up against the camera.
Now these 2 have developed like mental communication abilities at this point.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
And the day feels all switched to Princess Peach.
Yeah, yeah.
But they are also in love.
I was going to say, it's all sex, which is why the corridor has gone big.
I'd be worried about that brain.
Is the armed button is there?
Letra set.
I always wanted those buttons.
I just wanted a lot of buttons.
Like I was super jealous of David with that whole wall of buttons.
Do you want to remember that moment in Moonraker where it looks like they're completely ripped off that shot.
Do you remember where you've got the little orange things towards the earth?
Yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah, yeah.
Poppy, actually. was that Tanya?
Was that Tanya losing Tanya Alexander?
Was someone else?
That was someone in yellow losing their shit.
Tanya's in red.
All right.
But in some very real sense, they're all tania, aren't they?
Look at them.
Yep, could have snuck up.
Yeah, I could have.
That's right.
What at?
Yeah.
Classic. making an entrance.
Classic Nick.
Constantly doing that.
It gets good and stunty here, boys.
So we've got Vic Armstrong right there.
Stage left.
Vic Armstrong is very much a friend of the Pongcast since he started off playing George Lazenby.
Actually, he started off playing the front end of Gregory Peck's horse in Arabesque in 1966.
He played those.
But he's George Lazenby.
Roger Moore.
In both persuaders and...
Yep, yep, yep.
And now we're about to enjoy Alf joint.
Is that the guy upstairs?
He's upstairs.
He's like, wait, who is that?
Like, I couldn't, I thought I was meant to know who they were.
He's the man.
I'll wait for it.
I wait for that.'s coming.
Because he's bloody good at it too.
Alf is famous for doing what you're about to see and that's it.
He just leaps off the top, Andrew.
In the Guinness book of freaking records.
For jumping off a balcony.
As the most prolific stumpman with the most injuries in the business.
But Vic is right there and just doing it all, giving us, giving it everything we've got.
Look at Barbara's hair.
Her hair's really distressed, isn't it?
Look, it's all fly away at the moment.
This has got to mess up his relationship.
Vaseline eyes after...
Yes, look at that.
But that, like, he is talking like a religious person, I don't know what's being said here.
Apparently, it's a theme in the 3 episodes this guy writes that faith comes up again, and it certainly comes up.
It's something that Victor talks about from time to time, but we're kind of negative about faith at the end of this.
Go and press the button.
Go on, press it.
I want to see him shooter.
That might startler.
That would start.
They've got a stun setting.
I mean, why wouldn't he have, that's what I didn't understand.
They've got stunts.
Stun them all.
Yeah, because he's a religious maniac.
He's like Oliver Cromwell.
With a stapler.
Roundhead Winster.
Yeah.
That planet...
It just makes me want to go and see a doctor.
You know what I mean?
Like a photo or something like that in the show.
There he is.
Do you recognise him?
Look at my Daniel Craig.
You first...
You force.
Well, and his Mexican non-union equivalent or anything.
You 1st saw him menacing our Sean in the opening sequence of Goldfinger.
Oh, wow.
That's his 1st big screen thing.
With the ball.
There he is saying, ow, that really...
Oh, Nick.
And that was Alpha again.
That's Alpha.
Yeah, yeah, yeah.
Yeah, and it was also the Harrison Ford standing.
He was.
He was Harrison's Hatford's in both...
Actually, all the Indiana Jones films.
I think nothing beats in this show.
What Victor's hair looks like during an action sequence.
It's amazing.
I like it when they have a couple of seconds left.
But they all have action cuddles.
That's right.
Everyone gets to action cuddle, Commander Kern.
And this.
This is where John has his change of heart and says, I don't have faith anymore.
Yeah, does his heart then?
He says I was crazy.
Oh, he suddenly loses it in the face of actual...
And he's got worse chest hair than Alan as well.
Disappointingly too.
He does have a spotlight, though.
Yeah, that's probably true.
That looks great, doesn't it?
So good.
The camera.
Just kind of moving listlessly.
Put some welly in it.
Yeah, yeah, he does.
He loses his face.
What a twat.
And he looks afraid.
There's that convincing act.
He's flaring his nostrils.
That's how you do fear.
Yeah.
Kenneth Williams acting.
Yes, exactly.
I love a bit later.
There's a line of time. like when someone says, can you put those fires out now?
Yes, I know.
They all stand there for watching them.
It's like, my papers are burning.
She's supposed to be on the deck.
We have to add the cheese toast.
Well, Commander, we're alive, but the whole room's on fire.
So, yeah, much.
What's your damage alpha?
Everything's on fire.
We are, of course, directed by Ray Austin for this episode.
I've forgotten that, yes. who is stunt coordinator for the Avengers and later director of several Tara King episodes.
Ah, and then general television director thereafter.
Okay.
It's the end of the episode.
So we have to stare out the window.
We did that last time during Force of Life.
We just had a good staring out the window scene just to round out things.
We do that at the end of DS9 episodes early on because we have no control. don't know what we're doing.
John has his busty moment.
Yeah.
Because Alan had his busty moment.
John has to have.
Yeah, well I'd put it away, John, because no one's impressed.
Oh, I don't know.
Yeah, maybe Helen's impressed.
She's trying to look at his eyes.
My eyes are up here, Helena.
Who's got the biggest car?
glance down at the end there.
Yes, she did.
Yeah, she did actually.
You right.
Yeah.
Oh my god.
But simply touch.
That's a lady.
They're looking at different.
Yeah, but she's looking at her memories of touching.
Yeah, and you wait.
It's about to happen.
And there is a there is a cut line from that ending.
Well, oh, yeah, she says something.
She looks back out the window. and acts like she hears something and says, Ara, and then it ends.
No.
Yeah. and they shot it.
They shot that.
Why didn't they keep that in?
That would be great.
Yeah, I don't know.
Didn't really go anywhere though.
No, that's... that's the thing.
I think they maybe cut it because she already believes him.
Yes.
Yeah.
And he's been proved right I mean, that's the thing.
He was proved right all along.
Blessed are they to believe.
Yes.
Well, exactly.
I have not seen.
Yes.
So, I thought that was good.
Again, it's our metaphysical thing that we do.
There's a bit of action.
There's a bilious thing.
There's a fabulous guest star.
A great planet.
Yeah.
It's a bit of Biffo.
Space sausages, and...
Space Moonraker.
Space Miz.
Lots of space.
That is a thing.
It's the name of the show.
I am quite surprised that that's a Ray Austin directed episode because, of course, he was always there for the big stunt scenes.
He understood all that work and he shot them better than anybody else, but his work with Margaret Layton in that set and the slow pull and really understanding what she needed to get her lines across is fantastic.
It really is startled for a stunter. standing aside and letting this incredible actor do her job.
And I think that scene, like, holds the whole together.
Oh, yeah.
Linda Thorson does talk about Ray Austin and kind of says, you know, at the time where she was sort of being bullied by studio execs and what have you, Ray was someone who always had her back because he, even though he'd been working on the show, if he is, was a new director.
And so they were kind of the 2 new kids together, even though he was older than her and had more experience on the show, he was trying to break out of just being the stunter ranger.
And so they supported each other a lot.
So, yeah, for him to have that level of sensitivity with Margaret feels like a natural extension to what I've heard about the man.
Yeah, she's great. best thing about it.
And there are an incredible number of amazing guest actors, aren't there this season?
Yeah, you've got you've got Cushing. you've got Christopher Lee. you've got Brian Blessed. you got Catherine Shell as a guest before becoming a regular.
Yep, you've got Leo McCern.
Leo McCern, Freddie Jones.
Is Freddie Jones this year, Richard?
don't believe so.
It's next year.
Okay.
Oh, you get Joan Collins next year.
We get John Collins.
Patrick Troughton.
Oh do we?
We get her this year.
We go to this year, Mission of the Dariens.
Space Cannibal.
Really?
That's the part she was born to play. pretty much.
And we do, we also get Peter Bowles, but sadly, not Penelope Key.
No.
Yeah.
She could have been God.
Yeah, they've Peter Bowles with the devil.
Yeah.
She could have been God. would have been great.
I've been watching your Mill and Wanda from our system to star system, and I have to say, I am not at all impressed.
And if this continues I shall not be sending my heralds for the Christmas pageant this year.
All right.
Well, I think we might wind that up.
What do you think?
Does anyone have any closing statement?
Yeah, see, that kills it.
Absolutely reliable.
I need a dustbuster.
Yeah.
It was nice to remind myself how good the show was.
Yeah. it really is good.
I'm really looking forward to sort of watching it again.
So what's happening in the world of the Flight through Entirety podcasting universe?
We finished series 9, which is available.
We have done all 4 of the Doctor Who specials.
What else is happening?
That's really bad it.
We're doing maximum power.
Series C continues unabated.
And the BJBJ game show returns in January.
Oh, I'm looking forward to that. should be awesome.
Yes.
And horror in Doctor Who?
What about?
Yeah, so the horror of who is going to continue?
That is a thing.
And I haven't really publicised that very much, but Brendan and I were joined Saul Werter from Surgeons of Horror, and we talked about horror in the Hartnell era, and we have plans to go ahead without Brendan, but with Pisa, friend of the podcast and host of the podcast, Peter Griffiths, will be joining me and we'll be talking about the Trouton era, and that will be released sometime after that.
Untitled Star Trek Project. will be back at some point and at some point I'm going to get some sleep.
I hope it's in a sky blue, silvery, kimono, always is, cipherable, left breast badge.
Well, that's what I always wear when I think I'm going to leap out of bed and start ranting maniacally about eternity and things.
Bustily, bustily.
Yes, yes.
You know, I won't, it's not Alan Carter quality chest hair, but it's not bad.
All right.
So until next time, until next time, remember that faith is the substance of things hoped for, the evidence of things not seen, much like Babylon 5.
Thank you very much for listening and good night.
Good night.
Could then.